>> CARLOS DUARTE:
All right.
So as Shadi mentioned, earlier
in the project we tried to
think of ways that we could
use all the data that might
come out of tools that
implementation rules and other
open data formats, and it was
one of our goals to propose a
prototype that could show how
we could browse the large
amounts of accessibility
testing data that might become
available in such a future.
So for this, we tried to look
at this from the perspective
of someone that's responsible
for monitoring efforts, and so
we asked ourselves: How can we
leverage the support of open
data for those
monitoring bodies?
And we came up with
this prototype, and
we emphasize this.
It is a prototype.
It's not something that's
production ready, but we
developed this as a way to
support future explorations of
what can such a tool offer.
So let me start by addressing
what types of data did we
consider for this prototype.
So to begin with, we need to
get data from somewhere, and
we can see there
are two sources.
First, the accessibility
evaluation reports that we
have been listening to.
So these evaluation reports
are written using EARL so that
we can import them.
So something that's an output
of an Axe evaluation and Alfa
evaluation or a QualWeb
evaluation, all tools that can
output their evaluation
reports in EARL we could
import that to this browser.
And, second, all the
accessibility statements.
We included statements that
use the open format, both the
one that Eric just presented
and that was developed as part
of the project, but also
the one that we adapted
to be used in Portugal.
And from both of these
sources, we collect an
interesting variety of data.
So we extract from these
sources data on success
criteria, on the elements that
have been assessed on the ACT
rules that were used to check
if the tool uses ACT rules,
the assertions that
were made, and the outcomes
of those assertions.
And so that we can browse
this, we have also added the
five -- a set of metadata that
can be used to categorize and
support this evaluation data.
So here we can see the
continent, country, the
category of the website or
the mobile app owner.
So if it's a private or a
public entity, the sector
where the entity operates in,
and even what evaluation tool
it was used to
produce the report.
And we in the tool designed
a number of visualizations.
So you will be able to see --
we'll do a short
demo after the slide.
So most data is presented
using bar charts with -- that
are grouped by the assertions
or the success criteria.
We -- besides the bar
charts, we have a table.
We provide access to a table
with the equivalent data of
the bar charts, but we made an
effort so that all the charts
are keyboard navigable, and we
also include a timeline view
so that it's easier to get
this grasping of how the
different metrics have
evolved over time.
And I think it's best to
illustrate the different ways
that we can interact with
the demo, with the data, by
showing you a demo.
So let me switch to
new -- a new window.
Okay.
And so now this is the -- the
initial page that you access
when you enter this tool.
Here we have -- let me
start with a disclaimer.
All the data that's being
presented in this demo was
randomly generated, including
the name of websites and the
evaluation tools,
so everything has
been randomly generated.
And the volume of data that we
have here is representative of
the number of evaluations that
a country the size of Portugal
can expect to have in
their monitoring process.
So as I was saying, this is
the initial visualization.
You get a chart grouped by
pages that have been evaluated
over different continents.
We start at the
continent level.
You can include information
about the assertions, the
passed assertions, the failed
assertions, the ones that the
tool can't tell if they
have passed or failed,
the inapplicable ones,
and the untested ones.
So similar to what Eric
just showed previously.
You can, instead of showing
assertions, show the
information based
on success criteria.
So passed, fail,
can't tell, inapplicable,
and untested criteria.
And let me go back to
assertions and move this Zoom
window to another place
and show you the data table
that we have.
Basically, the same data that
you have in the bar charts can
be presented in
the tabular format.
Okay.
So if you want to see data
grouped by country, you just
pick that on that sidebar.
And now that's -- instead
of just seeing, okay, like,
seeing everything on the
sector page, I just want to
know information about the
two -- the testability of the
private and public
sectors in the British
Indian Ocean territory.
So I just select that bar, and
I can drill down on sector
information on the model
window that shows up.
And now I have the information
about just the British Indian
Ocean territory grouped by
private sector and public
sector, and I
can compare that.
So if I want to see all
data about sectors, I can
just press there.
And I see, okay, I have over
4,000 pages on the private
sector and over 3,000
pages on the public sector.
And now let's say I want to
compare data of the public
sector onto
specific countries.
So instead of drilling down, I
want to group by this -- a way
to group this kind of data
using another category and,
say, okay, let me group
this, for instance,
France and Luxembourg.
Okay.
So I can now see the data on
public sector bodies only.
So we're comparing sector
public grouped by two
countries, France
and Luxembourg.
And in this visualization
I can have them both at
the same time.
Let me move
to another class.
Let me see.
We can see tags or categories.
Here we have, once
again, randomized data.
Don't forget if I want to see
how health -- how the health
sector has been doing over
time, I can just, once again,
select this on the bar charts.
Sorry.
And then I can go and do
-- and select the timeline
option, which will show me
for every month that I have
collected data on this -- on
websites or mobile apps that
have been tagged as health,
I can see the data here.
Let me go back to tag and show
you how I can compare, for
instance, data on the health
and the media sector.
So here I can use the
comparison and health, which
is the one that I've
selected it already.
Previously selected.
And now I can also select
media, and the comparison page
will show me, okay, the number
of pages that have been
evaluated and the passed
assertions, failed assertions,
can't tell assertions,
inapplicable, and untested
assertions for both sectors
side by side so that I
can compare them.
Let me just present
one more feature.
If I go -- this is
specific at this level.
If I go to the application
website and I change my
visualization from the
assertions to the success
criteria, now I can have
access to specific tests of
each success criteria
for one application.
So we can see here for the
front applications of the fair
success criteria, and I'm
going to select here this
application or
website, whatever.
And I have this -- it's only
in this view that I have this
option here, the
Details option.
So if I go to the Details
page, now I have -- okay, for
this application or website, I
know that passed the success
criteria, and I can see the
different tests that tell me
that, and I see that it
failed this success criteria.
And, once again, I have
access to the different
tests where it fails.
So we can, in fact, go all the
way up from a grouping of the
data by continent to specific
assertions of one application.
So this shows us the range
that we can have just by
visualizing data that's made
available from this --
from these tools.
So let me go back to the
slides and just -- I've
finished my presentation.
So all of this is open source.
You can play with this demo.
It's available at
www.qualweb.di.fc.ul.pt/
placm/test.
The source code will be really
soon available at this rep.
It's not there yet because
we're moving this to a
dedicated repository for
this -- for these tools.
So you will be able to find it
at GitHub.com/carlosapaduarte.
That's --
C-A-R-L-O-S-A-P-A-D-U-A-R-T-E/pl
acm. Okay?
And if you have any questions
or any problems getting this
to run, you can get
in touch with me at
caduarte@campus.ul.pt.
And thank you.
I think I've gone a
little bit over my time.
Sorry for that, Shadi.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: No.
You're spot on.
Thank you, Carlos.
And as I told folks earlier
on, this is a bit more
aspirational part.
So just to recap, we looked
at, you know, in the morning
of these many, many small
rules, right, that test very,
very specific parts.
And we looked at
so-called implementation
reports for these.
So how do we collect
information from these
different rules and
the tools and the
methodologies implemented?
And then if we can aggregate
that on a, say, monitoring
body level or, you know, even
more widely, can we collect
all this data, all
this information?
I understand this seems a
bit more futuristic, but,
you know, why not
think about that.
Public websites are
required to be public.
The monitoring of their
reports is required to happen.
If we can provide this open
data, we can look more -- and
this is not about
shaming people.
This is about analyzing where
are there issues, which
particular sectors need more
support, need more training
and advocation, and, you know,
member states or countries or
even organizations.
It could be on an organization
level could use that to
improve their actions and what
they're doing to make sure
accessibility is implemented.
So the key word here
is EARL, the evaluation
and report language.
This is a format to write
down test results, basically.
I'll read out the GitHub URL
for that, where you can go and
see that syntax for
writing such results.
So it's github.com/w3c/earl,
E-A-R-L,
Evaluation And Report Language.
Okay.
We had a question
for you, Carlos.
My master's student is
studying the Portuguese public
libraries website
accessibility.
He has full list of public
libraries' addresses.
Can he import the list to test
data browser and do a summary
analysis of all of them?
>> CARLOS DUARTE: No. No.
Because this, too, does not do
the accessibility evaluation.
If you have the accessibility
evaluation of all of those
libraries in EARL format, as
Shadi was just mentioning,
yes, then you can import those
reports and use this tool to
go over and do the --
what kind of analysis that
you want to do.